README.md, before:

# CsvToAsset

This tool migrates legacy PAM assets (_before 4.0_) to new Asset Manager assets.
Before using this tool, please read the [migration guide](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/pam-migration-guide.html).

## Installation

If your PIM Enterprise Edition uses Docker, we encourage you to use this tool with Docker too.
First, clone this repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:akeneo/CsvToAsset.git csv_to_asset
cd csv_to_asset
```

Without Docker, you need to install `composer` locally:
```bash
composer install
```

With Docker, install dependencies with `composer` image:
```bash
docker-compose up
docker run --rm --interactive --tty --volume $PWD:/app --volume ${HOST_COMPOSER_HOME:-~/.composer}:/var/www/.composer composer:1.7 install
```

You're ready to migrate your assets!

## Setup

You need to copy the [.env.dist](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dotenv.html) file:
```bash
cp .env.dist .env
```

Then open `.env` to define the needed configuration vars:
- `AKENEO_API_BASE_URI` refers to the URL of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for API calls.
   For example, `http://localhost:80`.
   If you use Docker, set this value to `http://httpd:80` (or `https://httpd:443` if you use SSL).
- `APP_ENV` refers to the `APP_ENV` of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for direct bask calls.
   Set it to `prod`, `prod_onprem_paas`...

## Docker setup

First, you have to update your Enterprise Edition `docker-compose.yml` file to allow external data from network.

```yaml
networks:
  pim:
    external: true
```
Then you will have to recreate this network manually. 
Go to your Enterprise Edition directory.
List the current networks with
```bash
docker network list
```
Find your Enterprise Edition network in this list, stop your Docker so it removes it, to be able to create the new one.
```bash
docker-compose stop
docker network create pim
docker-compose up -d
```

Then, you have to use the `docker-compose.override.yml` of this repository. 
Copy paste the `docker-compose.override.yml.dist` into `docker-compose.override.yml`.
Then, update `/path/to/ee/` to match to your local installation (e.g. `/home/akeneo/pim-ee/`).
Finally, restart your CsvToAsset docker:
```bash
docker-compose up
```

## How to Use

Please read the different migration scenarios to find the one which will match your needs.
You can refer to the [migration guide](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/pam-migration-guide.html) to have a full description of each scenario.

### Pre-requisite

When running the migrations, the script will create a new API connection in your PIM. This API connection has the "User" permissions by default.

In order to be able to fully run the migrations, you need to make sure the "User" Role has at least the following API permissions:
- "Overall Web API Access"
- "Channels"

To set those up, go in the "Settings" menu, then "Roles", Then select the "User" role. Go in the Web API permissions.

### Full-automatic migration

This mode is for a PIM with a simple usage of the former PAM assets.
It will automatically create your PAM assets and import them into a unique Asset family.
As the categories and tags do not exist in the new Asset feature, we will keep them in a specific field on each Asset.

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/full-automatic-pam-migration.html).

### Family-by-family migration

In this mode, you will create several Asset families.

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/family-by-family-pam-migration.html).

### Full manual migration

This mode is for users who need to create several Asset families and choose every parameter of your families.

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/full-manual-pam-migration.html).

## Commands

### `app:migrate [options] <pim_path> <assets_csv_filename> <variations_csv_filename>`
> This command migrates a single assets CSV file to one or several Asset families.

You can run `app:migrate -h` to have full details about this command's arguments.

You can use a mapping file to rename the default asset family attributes. All the attributes you can map are available in `mapping.json.dist`.
You can, for example, create the above file `mapping.json` and call the migrate command with `--mapping=mapping.json`:
```yaml
{
    "reference": "main_image",
    "variation_scopable": "my_variations",
    "categories": "former_categories"
}
```
It will create a family and import your assets with attributes `main_image`, `my_variations` and `former_categories` instead of the default `reference`, `variation_scopable` and `categories`.

Options:
- `--asset_family_code=ASSET-FAMILY-CODE`
- `--reference_type=localizable|non-localizable|both|auto`
- `--with_categories=yes|no|auto`
- `--with_variations=yes|no`
- `--with_end_of_use=yes|no|auto`
- `--convert_category_to_option=yes|no|auto`
- `--convert_tag_to_option=yes|no|auto`
- `--mapping=MAPPING`

### `app:create-family [options] <asset_family_code>`
> This command creates (using the API) an Asset Family with attributes needed to support the legacy PAM structure
- `reference` (_media_file attribute_)
- `reference_localizable` (_media_file attribute_)
- `variation_scopable` (_media_file attribute_)
- `variation_localizable_scopable` (_media_file attribute_)
- `description` (_text attribute_)
- `categories` (_text attribute_)
- `tags` (_text attribute_)
- `end_of_use` (_text attribute_)

You can run `app:create-family -h` to have full details about this command's arguments.

Options:
- `--reference_type=localizable|non-localizable|both`
- `--with_categories=yes|no`
- `--with_variations=yes|no`
- `--with_end_of_use=yes|no`
- `--category_options=CATEGORY-OPTIONS` (comma separated)
- `--tag_options=TAG-OPTIONS` (comma separated)
- `--mapping=MAPPING`

Ex: `php bin/console app:create-family my_asset_family`

### `app:merge-files [options] <assets_file_path> <variations_file_path> <target_file_path>`
> This command merges one assets CSV file (`assets_file_path`) and a variations CSV file (`variations_file_path`) into one single file (`target_file_path`), ready to be imported by another command.

**Note regarding memory:** This command loads some values in memory and thus can result in a `PHP Fatal error: Out of memory`.
This can happen if you have:
- A lot of **localizable assets and a lot of locales**
- A **lot variations** (more than 1 million)

If you encounter this problem, we encourage you to increase memory limit when running this command by adding `-d memory_limit=4G` for example.

Ex: `php bin/console app:merge-files var/assets.csv var/variations.csv var/new_assets.csv`

You can run `app:merge-files -h` to have full details about this command arguments.

Options:
- `--reference_type=localizable|non-localizable|both`
- `--with_categories=yes|no`
- `--mapping=MAPPING`

### `app:import [file_path] [asset_family_code]`
> This command imports in the given Asset Family, a given Asset Manager CSV files into the PIM using the API. The `file_path` file should be a file generated by the `merge-files` command.

Ex: `php bin/console app:import var/new_assets.csv my_asset_family`


## Common issues

### The API is not reachable

When running the migration the following error occurs:
```
  cURL error 6: Could not resolve: my-pim.com (Domain name not found) (see ht
  tps://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/libcurl-errors.html)
```

This probably means you didn't properly configure your `AKENEO_API_BASE_URI` environment variable in the .env file.

### The script does not seem to have the permission to be able to use the API

When running the migration one of the following error occurs:
```
  You are not allowed to access the web API. (see https://api.akeneo.com/php-
  client/exception.html#client-exception)
```

```
  [Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\Exception\ClientErrorHttpException (403)]
  Access forbidden. You are not allowed to list channels. (see https://api.ak
  eneo.com/php-client/exception.html#client-exception)
```

This error means that the "User" role in your PIM does not have the required permissions to fully run the migrations.

Check the "Pre-requisite" section above to set up your User role permissions correctly.

Don't forget to set those back to how they were when you are done migrating your assets.

### The import is too slow for me, How can I import my assets faster ?

When importing your assets using the command `app:migrate`, this command splits the asset file to import into multiple files of 50K assets.

The split files are located in the `/tmp` directory and have the following names:
- migration_target_XXXXX.csv_aa
- migration_target_XXXXX.csv_ab
- migration_target_XXXXX.csv_ac
- ...

Once the import of assets has started (meaning the asset family and all its attributes have been created in the PIM), you can stop the `app:migrate` script and start multiple SHELL execution of the imports.

To do so, run in separated terminals the following commands:
- `bin/console app:import /private/tmp/migration_target_XXXXX.csv_aa {TARGET_ASSET_FAMILY} -vvv`
- `bin/console app:import /private/tmp/migration_target_XXXXX.csv_ab {TARGET_ASSET_FAMILY} -vvv`
- `bin/console app:import /private/tmp/migration_target_XXXXX.csv_ac {TARGET_ASSET_FAMILY} -vvv`
- ...

Doing so, you will be able to run the import of multiple assets in parallel.

Commit message:

Fix README with missing credentials file

README.md, after:

# CsvToAsset

This tool migrates legacy PAM assets (_before 4.0_) to new Asset Manager assets.
Before using this tool, please read the [migration guide](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/pam-migration-guide.html).

## Installation

If your PIM Enterprise Edition uses Docker, we encourage you to use this tool with Docker too.
First, clone this repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:akeneo/CsvToAsset.git csv_to_asset
cd csv_to_asset
```

Without Docker, you need to install `composer` locally:
```bash
composer install
```

With Docker, install dependencies with `composer` image:
```bash
docker-compose up
docker run --rm --interactive --tty --volume $PWD:/app --volume ${HOST_COMPOSER_HOME:-~/.composer}:/var/www/.composer composer:1.7 install
```

You're ready to migrate your assets!

## Setup

You need to copy the [.env.dist](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dotenv.html) file:
```bash
cp .env.dist .env
```

Then open `.env` to define the needed configuration vars:
- `AKENEO_API_BASE_URI` refers to the URL of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for API calls.
   For example, `http://localhost:80`.
   If you use Docker, set this value to `http://httpd:80` (or `https://httpd:443` if you use SSL).
- `APP_ENV` refers to the `APP_ENV` of your PIM Enterprise Edition, used for direct bask calls.
   Set it to `prod`, `prod_onprem_paas`...

You also need to create a `credentials` file at the root of this project. This API credentials file needs to contain the following information : `clientId`, `secret`, `username`, `password`. The format of the file is the given in the example below :
```
on this line put my API client ID
on this line put my API secret
on this line put my API username
on this line put my API password
```

## Docker setup

First, you have to update your Enterprise Edition `docker-compose.yml` file to allow external data from network.

```yaml
networks:
  pim:
    external: true
```
Then you will have to recreate this network manually. 
Go to your Enterprise Edition directory.
List the current networks with
```bash
docker network list
```
Find your Enterprise Edition network in this list, stop your Docker so it removes it, to be able to create the new one.
```bash
docker-compose stop
docker network create pim
docker-compose up -d
```

Then, you have to use the `docker-compose.override.yml` of this repository. 
Copy paste the `docker-compose.override.yml.dist` into `docker-compose.override.yml`.
Then, update `/path/to/ee/` to match to your local installation (e.g. `/home/akeneo/pim-ee/`).
Finally, restart your CsvToAsset docker:
```bash
docker-compose up
```

## How to Use

Please read the different migration scenarios to find the one which will match your needs.
You can refer to the [migration guide](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/pam-migration-guide.html) to have a full description of each scenario.

### Pre-requisite

When running the migrations, the script will create a new API connection in your PIM. This API connection has the "User" permissions by default.

In order to be able to fully run the migrations, you need to make sure the "User" Role has at least the following API permissions:
- "Overall Web API Access"
- "Channels"

To set those up, go in the "Settings" menu, then "Roles", Then select the "User" role. Go in the Web API permissions.

### Full-automatic migration

This mode is for a PIM with a simple usage of the former PAM assets.
It will automatically create your PAM assets and import them into a unique Asset family.
As the categories and tags do not exist in the new Asset feature, we will keep them in a specific field on each Asset.

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/full-automatic-pam-migration.html).

### Family-by-family migration

In this mode, you will create several Asset families.

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/family-by-family-pam-migration.html).

### Full manual migration

This mode is for users who need to create several Asset families and choose every parameter of your families.

Please read the [full documentation](https://help.akeneo.com/pim/serenity/articles/full-manual-pam-migration.html).

## Commands

### `app:migrate [options] <pim_path> <assets_csv_filename> <variations_csv_filename>`
> This command migrates a single assets CSV file to one or several Asset families.

You can run `app:migrate -h` to have full details about this command's arguments.

You can use a mapping file to rename the default asset family attributes. All the attributes you can map are available in `mapping.json.dist`.
You can, for example, create the above file `mapping.json` and call the migrate command with `--mapping=mapping.json`:
```yaml
{
    "reference": "main_image",
    "variation_scopable": "my_variations",
    "categories": "former_categories"
}
```
It will create a family and import your assets with attributes `main_image`, `my_variations` and `former_categories` instead of the default `reference`, `variation_scopable` and `categories`.

Options:
- `--asset_family_code=ASSET-FAMILY-CODE`
- `--reference_type=localizable|non-localizable|both|auto`
- `--with_categories=yes|no|auto`
- `--with_variations=yes|no`
- `--with_end_of_use=yes|no|auto`
- `--convert_category_to_option=yes|no|auto`
- `--convert_tag_to_option=yes|no|auto`
- `--mapping=MAPPING`

### `app:create-family [options] <asset_family_code>`
> This command creates (using the API) an Asset Family with attributes needed to support the legacy PAM structure
- `reference` (_media_file attribute_)
- `reference_localizable` (_media_file attribute_)
- `variation_scopable` (_media_file attribute_)
- `variation_localizable_scopable` (_media_file attribute_)
- `description` (_text attribute_)
- `categories` (_text attribute_)
- `tags` (_text attribute_)
- `end_of_use` (_text attribute_)

You can run `app:create-family -h` to have full details about this command's arguments.

Options:
- `--reference_type=localizable|non-localizable|both`
- `--with_categories=yes|no`
- `--with_variations=yes|no`
- `--with_end_of_use=yes|no`
- `--category_options=CATEGORY-OPTIONS` (comma separated)
- `--tag_options=TAG-OPTIONS` (comma separated)
- `--mapping=MAPPING`

Ex: `php bin/console app:create-family my_asset_family`

### `app:merge-files [options] <assets_file_path> <variations_file_path> <target_file_path>`
> This command merges one assets CSV file (`assets_file_path`) and a variations CSV file (`variations_file_path`) into one single file (`target_file_path`), ready to be imported by another command.

**Note regarding memory:** This command loads some values in memory and thus can result in a `PHP Fatal error: Out of memory`.
This can happen if you have:
- A lot of **localizable assets and a lot of locales**
- A **lot variations** (more than 1 million)

If you encounter this problem, we encourage you to increase memory limit when running this command by adding `-d memory_limit=4G` for example.

Ex: `php bin/console app:merge-files var/assets.csv var/variations.csv var/new_assets.csv`

You can run `app:merge-files -h` to have full details about this command arguments.

Options:
- `--reference_type=localizable|non-localizable|both`
- `--with_categories=yes|no`
- `--mapping=MAPPING`

### `app:import [file_path] [asset_family_code]`
> This command imports in the given Asset Family, a given Asset Manager CSV files into the PIM using the API. The `file_path` file should be a file generated by the `merge-files` command.

Ex: `php bin/console app:import var/new_assets.csv my_asset_family`


## Common issues

### The API is not reachable

When running the migration the following error occurs:
```
  cURL error 6: Could not resolve: my-pim.com (Domain name not found) (see ht
  tps://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/libcurl-errors.html)
```

This probably means you didn't properly configure your `AKENEO_API_BASE_URI` environment variable in the .env file.

### The script does not seem to have the permission to be able to use the API

When running the migration one of the following error occurs:
```
  You are not allowed to access the web API. (see https://api.akeneo.com/php-
  client/exception.html#client-exception)
```

```
  [Akeneo\Pim\ApiClient\Exception\ClientErrorHttpException (403)]
  Access forbidden. You are not allowed to list channels. (see https://api.ak
  eneo.com/php-client/exception.html#client-exception)
```

This error means that the "User" role in your PIM does not have the required permissions to fully run the migrations.

Check the "Pre-requisite" section above to set up your User role permissions correctly.

Don't forget to set those back to how they were when you are done migrating your assets.

### The import is too slow for me, How can I import my assets faster ?

When importing your assets using the command `app:migrate`, this command splits the asset file to import into multiple files of 50K assets.

The split files are located in the `/tmp` directory and have the following names:
- migration_target_XXXXX.csv_aa
- migration_target_XXXXX.csv_ab
- migration_target_XXXXX.csv_ac
- ...

Once the import of assets has started (meaning the asset family and all its attributes have been created in the PIM), you can stop the `app:migrate` script and start multiple SHELL execution of the imports.

To do so, run in separated terminals the following commands:
- `bin/console app:import /private/tmp/migration_target_XXXXX.csv_aa {TARGET_ASSET_FAMILY} -vvv`
- `bin/console app:import /private/tmp/migration_target_XXXXX.csv_ab {TARGET_ASSET_FAMILY} -vvv`
- `bin/console app:import /private/tmp/migration_target_XXXXX.csv_ac {TARGET_ASSET_FAMILY} -vvv`
- ...

Doing so, you will be able to run the import of multiple assets in parallel.
